# Memory Safe - Il Rischio dell'Invisibile project

An European research project, DiDIY (Digital Do It Yourself - www.didiy.eu), coordinated by LIUC – Università Cattaneo, is studying how makers are modifying organizations, workplaces, education, research and creative design, by changing the common perception of social value and creativity, influencing legal systems and pushing the revision of ethical aspects.
While the process of digital prototyping and fabrication of physical artifacts starting from digital specifications (i.e. enabled by the use of CAD software and 3D printers) is indeed one of the most known examples of what we call the “Digital Do It Yourself” phenomena, other kind of digital tools that significantly enable Atoms-Bits Convergence, or ABC (a new language), are already effectively used in education projects with the aim of fostering creativity, critical sense, communication and collaboration skills, and, in general, enhancing learning processes. In some cases, students are required to concretely work through hands-on laboratories that, thanks to the use of ABC tools, could be built as physical simulations that mimic real world topics they may face in their future jobs. One example of such topic is the culture of safety. 
LIUC pioneered this concept with an experiment that successfully took place during the “MemorySafe – Il Rischio dell’Invisibile” project that has been coordinated by IIS "E. Ferrari” of Monza and involved the University among the other partners. 
The context was the design of methods and models to spread the culture of safety through the identification and measurement of physical quantities that directly influence the quality of environments such as workplaces or schools. During the six-month project students and teachers effectively collaborated in the design, development and deployment of an IoT system based on an open architecture that is extensible, with good performance and easy to be managed. The project delivered a complete IoT system, based on open hardware and open source components, that allowed measurement of physical quantities with sensors, transmission and management of relevant data and their visualization with web based dashboards. 
Thanks to their direct involvement in the design, the development and the deployment of the system, the students – even the ones without previous knowledge on software development and IoT artifacts – could experiment some of the actual problems relevant to the safety topic, while learning, as real makers, how to handle them with IoT systems.
